Title: Equidistant resonance jumps in superconducting coplanar resonators driven by Abrikosov vortices

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.15751v1

Published Time: Mon, 18 May 2026 01:06:32 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
# Equidistant resonance jumps in superconducting coplanar resonators driven by Abrikosov vortices 

Dmitrii S. Kalashnikov, 1, ∗ Denis Yu. Vodolazov, 1, 2 

Ruslan I. Kinzibaev, 1, 3 Andrei G. Shishkin, 1, 3 and Vasily S. Stolyarov 1, 3, †

> 1

Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, 141700 Dolgoprudny, Russia 

> 2

Institute for Physics of Microstructures, Russian Academy of Sciences, 603950, Nizhny Novgorod, GSP-105, Russia 

> 3

Dukhov Research Institute of Automatics (VNIIA), 127055 Moscow, Russia 

Superconducting coplanar resonators are key building blocks of cryogenic microwave circuits, yet their performance in perpendicular magnetic fields is ultimately limited by Abrikosov vortices. In this work we investigate the dependence of the transmission parameter S21 of niobium quarter-wave coplanar resonators on perpendicular magnetic fields up to 40 Oe and at temperatures between 18 mK and 5 K. Beyond the reversible Meissner regime, the entire resonance peak exhibits abrupt, staircase-like jumps as a function of magnetic field. Upon reversal of the field sweep, these jumps form an almost equidistant series with spacing ∆ H ≃ 1.7–1 .8 Oe, which, in agreement with theo-retical estimates, we interpret as signatures of multiple-vortex entry and exit events. Additionally, we observe the non-proportional responses of the resonant frequency and the internal quality factor that indicate a complex contribution of vortex and antivortex configurations. We believe that our results will stimulate further studies of large vortex–antivortex systems, explicitly accounting for their discrete nature. 

I. INTRODUCTION 

Superconducting coplanar waveguides and resonators underpin a broad range of cryogenic microwave technolo-gies, including superconducting quantum processors [1], cryogenic memory elements [2, 3], kinetic inductance de-tectors [4, 5], and general-purpose microwave compo-nents [6]. For these applications, significant efforts have been devoted to the development of high-quality-factor resonators [7–9]; however, their increased sensitivity to external perturbations makes the stability of their pa-rameters an important issue. The performance of coplanar resonators is strongly af-fected by magnetic fields applied perpendicular to the device plane. Such fields can be unavoidable (residual fields, trapped flux in surrounding components) or in-tentionally applied to control on-chip elements such as tunable qubits [10] or frequency-tunable resonators [11]. Understanding the magnetic-field response of planar res-onators is therefore important both for mitigating loss and for enabling field-compatible circuit designs. At sufficiently small fields, a coplanar resonator typi-cally exhibits a weak and reversible parabolic shift of the resonant frequency, which reflects the field-induced in-crease of the kinetic inductance in the Meissner state [12]. At higher fields, Abrikosov vortices penetrate the super-conducting film. Each vortex carries a single flux quan-tum Φ 0 ≈ 2.068 × 10 −15 Wb and introduces additional dissipation and inductance through the vortex core and the surrounding supercurrents [13, 14]. As a result, vor-tices reduce both the resonant frequency and the qual-ity factor [15]. Due to pinning, the magnetoresponse is   

> ∗kalashnikov.ds@phystech.edu
> †stolyarov.vs@phystech.edu

strongly hysteretic and, for planar geometry, can often be described by the Norris–Brandt–Indenbom (NBI) model [16, 17]. A practical mitigation of vortex influ-ence strategy is to engineer flux screening and pinning landscapes, for example by perforating the film (anti-dots) [18, 19]. While a mixed vortex state is inherent to type-II superconductors like niobium, vortices can also nucleate in thin films of type-I materials, such as the commonly used aluminum [20]. Importantly, vortex penetration is frequently not a smooth process: the geometric/surface barrier for vor-tex entry can promote cooperative vortex avalanches. Extensive experimental and modeling efforts have been devoted to understanding this instability in diverse su-perconducting geometries — from bulk samples [21] and multifilamentary wires [22, 23] to thin films [24–26] No-tably, of such avalanches have recently been observed in superconducting resonators [27]. While vortex-resonator interaction is a primary source of decoherence and loss, they also provide a sensitive probe of nonequilibrium and collective vortex dynamics [28, 29]. Moreover, ongoing ef-forts to control Abrikosov vortices open the possibility of employing them as functional elements in superconduct-ing logic circuits and memory cells [30–32]. In this work, we perform high-resolution magnetospec-troscopy from zero-field cooled state of several copla-nar resonators on two chips with different homogene-ity of superconducting films. We demonstrate a repro-ducible staircase-like evolution of the resonance parame-ters and identify an almost equidistant sequence of jump fields that emerges immediately after reversing the field sweep direction. We show that the jump positions dif-fer between resonators indicating a local origin of the phenomena, and strongly depend on the superconduct-ing film quality. To estimate the contribution of vor-tices to the resonator inductance, we employed a simple model derived from conventional vortex dynamics (Ap-

> arXiv:2605.15751v1 [cond-mat.supr-con] 15 May 2026

2    

> FIG. 1. Sample A. (a) Design of the chip layout with six capacitively coupled (notch-type) quarter-wave coplanar res-onators. The inset shows optical image of the resonator sec-tion. (b) Broadband transmission S21 (f) showing six reso-nance dips. (c,d) Representative resonance dips for resonators #1 and #3 together with fits by an asymmetric Lorentzian line shape [33].

pendix A) and extend it with theoretical calculations ob-tained from numerical solutions of the time-dependent Ginzburg–Landau equation (Appendix B).   

> II. EXPERIMENT A. Sample design and measurement protocol

We investigate two chips (samples A and B) con-taining superconducting coplanar resonators patterned from a 100-nm-thick niobium film. The fabrication de-tails and the measurement setup are summarized in Ap-pendix C. The layout of sample A—the primary focus of this work—is shown in Fig. 1(a). It contains six quarter-wave resonators of different lengths and thus different resonance frequencies. The resonators are capacitively coupled to a common feedline in a notch-type geome-try. Additional data for sample B are presented in Ap-pendix D. All resonators have the central line width W = 30 μmand the gap to the ground G = 17 μm, which sets the value of the wave impedance Z0 = 50 Ω. Both the feedline and the resonators are surrounded by a perfo-rated ground plane: a square lattice of 10 × 10 μm2

holes with a 10 μm edge-to-edge separation (lattice pe-riod 20 μm). Such perforations are known to reduce detri-mental vortex-induced effects by trapping magnetic flux [18, 19]. In the experiment, we measure the complex transmis-sion coefficient S21 using a vector network analyzer. Each resonance appears as a sharp dip in |S21 (f )| due to mi-crowave power absorption by the resonator. Figure 1 (b) shows a representative broadband frequency sweep over all six fundamental modes. We fit each resonance dip with an asymmetric Lorentzian line shape to extract the resonant frequency 

fr and the internal quality factor Qi [33, 34]. For a quarter-wave resonator the fundamental mode frequency and internal quality factor can be written as 

fr = 14l√LC , Qi = π

4Rl 

r LC , (1) where L, C and R are the per-unit-length inductance, capacitance and resistance, respectively, l is the length of a resonator. The propagation dips analyzed below are shown in Fig. 1(c) and (d). At the base temperature of 18 mK and in absence of external magnetic field, we obtain for resonator #1: fr = 3 .270 GHz, Qi = 1 .6 × 10 5; and for resonator #3: fr = 3 .832 GHz, Qi = 4 .7 × 10 4. The cou-pling quality factor Qc, determined by the geometry of the coupling region between the resonator and the cen-tral feedline, is approximately 5 × 10 4 for all resonators on the chip. The corresponding lengths of resonators #1 and #3 equal 9.34 mm and 7.95 mm, respectively.  

> B. Small magnetic fields: Meissner regime

Figure 2 illustrates the evolution of the resonance peak in an external magnetic field applied perpendicular to the chip plane. At low fields—in our device, for |H0| ≲ 1 Oe (see Fig. 2 (a) and (c))—the resonant frequency decreases smoothly following an approximately parabolic law. This response reflects the suppression of the superconducting order parameter by Meissner screening currents and the associated increase of the penetration depth (kinetic in-ductance) [12]. Within the magnetic field range con-sidered, the internal quality factor shown in Fig. 2 (e) 3            

> FIG. 2. Magnetic-field dependence of resonator #3. (a,b) Color maps of the transmission amplitude |S21 |as a function of the probe frequency and the applied perpendicular field. The frequency axis is plotted relative to the zero-field resonance
> f0= 3 .832 GHz (horizontal gray dashed line). Resonance frequency fr(c,d) and internal quality factor Qi(e,f) extracted from line-shape fits during a full hysteresis cycle: sweeping from 0 to −Hmax , then to + Hmax , and back to 0. Arrows and colors indicate the sweep direction starting with the red curves. The color maps in (a,b) correspond to the orange lines shown in the subsequent panels. The black dashed curve is a parabolic fit to the low-field data in panel (c), extrapolated to higher fields in panel (d).

remains approximately constant, within an accuracy of about one percent estimated from the experimental data fit. Importantly, within this low-field regime the reso-nance parameters return to their initial values once the field is removed.  

> C. Large magnetic fields: Abrikosov vortices

We extend the measurements to perpendicular fields up to 40 Oe. Before each hysteresis cycle, the sample is warmed above the critical temperature Tc and then cooled to the base temperature (18 mK) in zero field, i.e., prepared in the zero-field-cooled (ZFC) state. As the field increases, the frequency deviates from the parabolic Meissner trend (Fig. 2(b) and (d)), and the first abrupt downward jump appears at H0 ≃ − 1.9 Oe. We associate this event with the onset of vortex penetration. Using a field step of 0 .2 Oe, we resolve that the de-pendence fr (H0) consists of smooth segments separated by sharp jumps. Up to H0 ≈ − 10 Oe, the resonance fre-quency remains close to the low-field parabolic extrapo-lation (black dashed line in Fig. 2(d)). Further increase in the magnetic field amplitude leads to frequency jumps in both directions. The overall averaged field dependence becomes linear. At a field of -40 Oe, the frequency sig-nificantly exceeds the parabolic extrapolation from the Meissner regime. The quality factor shown in Fig. 2 (f) tends to decrease linearly as the field increases. The large error in determining this value makes it impossible to dis-tinguish individual jumps. After reaching H0 ≈ − 40 Oe, we reverse the sweep direction. The frequency then increases through a se-quence of jumps and reaches a maximum before the field changes sign. The quality factor also increases when the field returns to zero. Similar hysteretic behavior has been reported previously [15, 18] and is captured by the NBI (Norris–Brandt–Indenbom) critical-state model with taking into the account the inhomogeneous distri-bution of microwave currents in a coplanar waveguide. In particular, immediately after field reversal vortices of opposite polarity can enter near the edges where the mi-crowave current density is maximal, strongly affecting both fr and Qi. Notably, after completing the cycle the resonance does not return to its initial zero-field value (gray dashed line in Fig. 2 b and d), indicating that a finite number of vortices remains trapped. We performed the same measurements with the mi-4      

> FIG. 3. Equidistant jumps in the resonance frequency. Panels (a) and (b) show the dependence of the resonant frequency on the magnetic field for the fundamental ( λ/ 4) mode of resonators #1 and #3 correspondingly. Panels (c) and (d) present behavior of the additional inductance in magnetic field calculated from the frequency change. Arrows indicate the magnetic field sweep direction. The data in panel (b) correspond to a segment of the plot in Fig. 2 (d). Color-coded markers denote data points following a sharp frequency jump. Panel (e) plots, using markers, the magnetic field value at which a frequency jump occurs versus the jump sequence number. Dashed lines represent linear fits to the experimental data.

crowave power increased and decreased by an order of magnitude and observed equivalent behavior of the res-onator curve. This indicates that the microwave current does not contribute substantially to the vortex distribu-tion compared to the external magnetic field. Further-more, this implies that the vortex dynamics are primarily local, without a flux-flow regime.  

> D. Equidistant frequency jumps

We performed the field-dependent measurements for all resonators on the chip. The measurement procedure consists of successive frequency sweeps over all observ-able resonance dips at a fixed field, followed by a step-wise change of the field. Figure 3 (a) and (b) shows the results for two representative resonators (Res #1 and Res #3). To formalize the jump-detection proce-dure we use quantitative criteria: a jump was defined as a frequency change exceeding 33 kHz between neigh-boring measurement points, comparable to the resonance linewidth. Data analysis reveals that the positions of the jumps differ among different resonators, which indicates that the observed effect is not associated with a common central waveguide and points instead to its local origin. Nevertheless, the behavior of the resonant frequency remains similar for both resonators. To evaluate the ef-fect of vortices, we calculated the change in the total inductance of the resonators LH due to the change of the magnetic field (see Fig. 3 (c) and (d)) based on the expression for frequency in Eq. (1). For this calcula-tion, we used the value of the capacitance per unit length 

C = 0 .16 nF/m obtained from the resonator geometry, which we assume to remain constant. We found that the inductance change due to jumps diminishes mono-tonically and approaches zero as the field amplitude de-creases, with the maximum value for both resonators be-ing ≈ 2 pH. A remarkable result of these measurements is the ob-servation of an approximately constant spacing between successive jumps along the magnetic-field axis, which we refer to as equidistance. This effect is reproducible over different field ranges ( Hmax = 10 , 20 , 40 Oe) and for all resonators, although it should be noted that a degree of stochasticity is present, occasionally leading to deviations from perfect equidistance. Such a non-ideal reproduction can be observed by comparing the orange and blue curves in Figure 2 (d). Despite the symmetric path of the mag-netic field (with the opposite sign), the jumps do not occur at the same positions, although the average behav-ior of the resonant frequency and the characteristic step size are preserved. For quantitative analysis, Fig. 3(e) shows the magnetic-field value at which each jump occurs as a func-tion of its ordinal number. A linear fit to this depen-dence yields a characteristic jump spacing of 1.7 Oe for resonator Res #1 and 1.8 Oe for resonator Res #3, indi-cating that the spacing is practically the same for both 5resonators, especially given the 0.2 Oe step size. We em-phasize that the equidistant behavior emerges immedi-ately after reversing the sweep direction of the magnetic field and persists approximately until the resonance fre-quency reaches its maximum value within the given field sweep cycle.  

> E. Temperature dependence of vortex entry

We investigate the vortex-entry process as a func-tion of temperature in both sample A and sample B. To avoid the influence of trapped vortices, each mea-surement begins from a zero-field-cooled (ZFC) state— warming above Tc and then cooling in zero magnetic field. Results for two resonators of identical geometry, one from each sample, are summarized in Fig. 4. In sample A, jump-like features persist up to at least 5 K. With increasing temperature, the size of continuous sections between jumps decreases: for example, the first jump shifts from H0 ≃ 1.9 Oe at 2 K to H0 ≃ 1.3 Oe at 5 K. At the same time, the overall influence of the magnetic field grows stronger at higher temperature; at 

H0 = 10 Oe, both the resonance-frequency shift and the relative change in the quality factor are significantly larger at 5 K than at 2 K. Sample B displays a qualitatively different behavior. The jumps are not equidistant—nor does an equidistant series appear after reversing the field-sweep direction— and by T = 4 .5 K the magnetoresponse becomes largely smooth. Although the resonators on both samples share the same geometry (Res #3), the chips are fabricated on different substrates: Si/SiO 2 for sample A and high-resistivity Si for sample B. As a result, the resonance frequency is lower for sample B ( fr = 3 .671 GHz at 18 mK) than for sample A because the dielectric constant of Si is larger than that of SiO 2, while the quality fac-tor is higher for sample B ( Qi = 1 .3 × 10 5 at 18 mK), since the crystalline silicon substrate introduces less en-ergy dissipation compared to the amorphous oxide layer.   

> III. DISCUSSION A. Surface barrier for vortex entry/exit

Our measurements show that fr (H0) (and, in general, 

Qi(H0)) consists of smooth segments separated by abrupt jumps. One may attribute these jumps to Abrikosov vor-tex entry or exit events. Such abrupt behavior may be connected with a surface barrier for vortex entry and exit known as the Bean–Livingston barrier [35]. Although vortices become energetically favorable above the first critical field Hc1 , the barrier delays their penetration to higher external fields. For a thin superconducting strip with thickness d ≲ λ (where λ is the London pen-etration depth) and width W ≫ Λ, where Λ = λ2/d 

is the Pearl length, the first critical field is given by 

Hc1 = Φ 0/(4 πW Λ) · ln(2Λ /ξ ), and the theoretical esti-mate for the field at which vortices overcome the barrier is Hs = Φ 0/(4 πξ √W Λ) [36], where ξ is the superconduct-ing coherence length. Note that both fields decrease as the strip width W increases, a behavior attributed to strong field focusing at its edges. Therefore, by reducing the width of the central resonator line, one can expend the vortex-free field region [18], which corresponds to a parabolic dependence of the resonance frequency. For our parameters (standard for magnetron sputtered nio-bium films λ = 100 nm, ξ = 10 nm and dimensions 

d = 100 nm, W = 30 μm) at low temperature, we ob-tain Hc1 = 1 .6 Oe and Hs = 92 Oe. The field at which the Meissner response ceases in our experiments is found to be only slightly above estimated Hc1 and much lower than the penetration field Hs. This indicates that the surface barrier for vortex entry is suppressed in our sam-ples, likely due to the granular structure of the niobium films and boundary roughness on the order of 100 nm (see Appendix E). Determining the exact locations and number of Abrikosov vortices entering the resonator remains an open question. The work of Nulens et al. [27] demon-strates that vortices enter the resonator line and the ground plane in large numbers via avalanches within a magnetic field range comparable to ours. More re-cently, Shulga et al. [37] also report discrete jumps in the resonant frequency fr (H0) for a Nb resonator. They attribute these jumps to the penetration of individual Abrikosov vortices into the specially narrowed part of a superconducting strip forming the resonator, an interpre-tation supported by NV-center magnetometry that di-rectly imaged discrete vortex entry events with increas-ing magnetic field. Given the similarity in the fr (H0)response, the applicable magnetic field range, and the resonator material parameters to our own devices, it is plausible that we are indirectly observing similar vor-tex entry/exit processes in the Nb strip. In our study all resonators on sample A, along with resonator #3 on sample B, incorporated a geometric constriction (width 5 μm, length 70 μm; see Fig. 7 caption). However, mea-surements of a resonator #7 without a constriction on sample B discussed in Appendix D reveal that the jump-like behavior and its characteristic magnitude are nearly identical. We therefore conclude that the jumps are not exclusively related to the constriction region.  

> B. The effect of Abrikosov vortices on the resonator parameters

Figure 2 demonstrates that the resonant frequency and quality factor do not change proportionally as was demonstrated in [20], where resonators in field cooled (FC) state were studied. In our case, upon decreasing the magnetic field amplitude after the sweep reversal, the frequency recovers almost completely, whereas the 6    

> FIG. 4. Field-induced evolution of the resonance peak at different temperatures. Each panel shows S21 (dB) as a function of probe frequency and the applied field swept from 0 to 10 Oe. The top row corresponds to sample A, and the bottom row to sample B; the resonators have identical geometries (Res #3) but are fabricated on different substrates. All panels use the same axis ranges (6 MHz along the frequency axis and 10 Oe along the field axis). The field is swept from 0 toward positive values. Before each temperature point, the sample is warmed above Tcto remove trapped flux and then cooled at zero field.

quality factor recovers only by half (see the orange curve in the negative-field region of Fig. 2 (d) and (f)). This indicates that the active (dissipative) and reactive con-tributions of vortices to the resonator impedance change non-proportionally with the magnetic field. We attribute this behavior to the following mechanism. A vortex and an antivortex pinned in close proximity without anni-hilating mutually compensate their circulating currents, thereby significantly reducing their net contribution to the inductance. However, the dissipation, primarily as-sociated with the vortex cores, remains additive, equiva-lent to the contribution of two individual vortices. Con-sequently, we conclude that at the field reversal point in Fig. 2 (at approximately -40 Oe), antivortices abruptly enter the resonator. This leads to a sharp increase in the resonant frequency and a simultaneous sharp decrease in the quality factor. As the field magnitude is further re-duced, the antivortices begin to partially annihilate with the existing vortices, resulting in a recovery of the quality factor. A precise theoretical calculation of the vortex contribu-tion to the kinetic inductance and, consequently, to the resonance frequency shift is a complex task. It requires accounting for pinning on defects and vortex-vortex in-teractions. As an initial step, we estimated this contribu-tion within a simplified framework: considering a narrow strip ( W ≪ Λ) without pinning (see Appendix A). In this case, the expression for the frequency shift due to N

non-interacting vortices can be derived from Eq. (A6): 

δf ≈ N · δf v ∼ − NH0

. (2) While N itself depends on the magnetic history and field, it remains constant as long as no vortices enter or exit the film. Under this condition, the frequency shift follows the dependence δf ∼ − H−10 , which qualitatively describes the smooth decrease in frequency observed between the discrete jumps in the experiment (see Fig. 3). Further, we performed numerical calculations based on the Ginzburg-Landau equation (see Appendix B) un-der the same simplified assumptions. These calculations yield inductance values consistent with the analytical es-timate. Furthermore, the modeling demonstrates that the presence of pinning on defects reduces the individual vortex contribution, as it restricts vortex motion under the influence of the current. However, a correct interpretation of the experimental resonator frequency shift data requires consideration of key factors neglected in these initial estimates. Main among these is the highly inhomogeneous distribution of both the screening and the transport RF currents in the actual device geometry (see eq. A7 and A8). Nev-7ertheless, to establish the relevant scale, we applied the expression A9. There H′ corresponds to the field of the vortex exit, which generally depends on their distribu-tion in the film. When the external field reaches H′ the inductance increases infinitely. We note that in numeri-cal calculations we also observe a strong increase in the inductance as H′ is approached. However, in the experi-ment, the steps are almost linear, indicating that at the moment of the jump, H′ for this configuration of vortices turns out to be at least about 10 Oe higher. We sub-stitute this estimate into formula A9 and find that one vortex contributes an inductance on the order of 0.01 pH. This value is two orders of magnitude smaller than the characteristic change in the total resonator inductance observed experimentally (see Fig. 3 c and d). From this comparison, we conclude that each observed jump in the resonance frequency corresponds to the entry of a large number of vortices into the sample ( δN ∼ 10 2).  

> C. Origin of the equidistant jumps

A notable finding of our research is that after reversing the field sweep, the jump fields form an almost equidis-tant sequence with ∆ H ≃ 1.8 Oe which is close to the first critical field. We propose that each jump corresponds to reaching lo-cal magnetic field near the strip field Hlocal = Hc1 leading to entry of antivortices. In this picture, once a jump oc-curs the system relaxes to a new state with a field near the zero around the strip; the next jump is triggered when the shielding-current distribution, which changes approx-imately linearly with the applied field, again reaches a critical condition. Physically similar mechanism was re-sponsible for the quasi-periodic avalanches of vortices [38] in the superconducting ring, when the difference between the applied field and the average field inside the central hole reaches a threshold level. The threshold mechanism is also discussed in Ref. [39], where the vorticity in the ring changes when the current density/supervelocity in the ring exceeds a critical value. This mechanism of equidistant jumps assumes that, within a given field range, antivortices enter the resonator uniformly along its length, without forming avalanches. In our case, such behavior is consistent with the es-timated low surface barrier. The formation of vortex avalanches is also known to depend on the magnetic field sweep rate [40], which in our experiment was very low (∼ 0.2 Oe /s). Moreover, we did not observe any signifi-cant changes when varying the power of the microwave signal. Additionally, in Ref. [27], where vortex pene-tration in coplanar resonators were investigated using magneto-optical imaging, no avalanches were observed during field sweeps from Hmax down to zero within a certain field interval (down to HIII ), although avalanches reappeared upon subsequent field increase. At higher fields, the equidistant pattern breaks down, and irregular upward and downward frequency jumps emerge at positive fields (see the orange curve in Fig. 3). We attribute this to deeper penetration of the antivortex front into the film, where vortex dynamics are governed by random pinning. In contrast, near −Hmax , variations in the number of vortices within the resonator are primar-ily controlled by the superconductor boundary. Due to the strongly nonuniform microwave current distribution, the response of a vortex depends sensitively on its dis-tance from the boundary. Consequently, abrupt changes in the resonator characteristics may arise from sudden collective vortex motion (e.g., depinning) perpendicular to the boundary, even in the absence of new vortex entry. In addition, vortices of opposite polarity remain trapped in the film (see Appendix F about our other study with similar niobium films). The observed upward frequency jumps with increasing field are therefore most likely as-sociated with vortex–antivortex annihilation in the film interior.  

> D. Role of film quality and vortex pinning: samples A vs B

Figure 4 highlights a pronounced difference between the magnetic-field responses of samples A and B. We at-tribute this divergence primarily to differences in the su-perconducting film quality and the corresponding pinning landscape. Vortex pinning in niobium films arises from multiple factors, including thickness modulations, grain bound-aries, and nanoscale disorder. Recent scanning vortex microscopy has revealed that pinning centers in Nb films can form an extended correlated “nano-network” rather than being randomly distributed [41–43]. Due to pinning, after magnetic field sweeping, vortices are distributed non-uniformly within the film. At the same time, the mi-crowave current across the resonator cross-section is also non-uniform. Consequently, the contribution to the res-onator impedance depends not only on the total number of vortices but also on their spatial distribution, which is governed by the local pinning strength. The granular structure of the film also weakens the surface barrier for vortex entry. Nevertheless, sample A exhibits robust and nearly equidistant steps, suggesting that the vortex-entry edge region is characterized by a comparatively uniform pinning landscape, allowing a reproducible threshold con-dition for successive penetration events. In contrast, sample B shows a chaotic, irregular re-sponse. SEM images reveal a smaller grain size in sample B compared to sample A (Appendix E). More-over, temperature-dependent resistance measurements (Appendix G) show that sample B has a lower super-conducting transition temperature and a broader tran-sition than sample A, indicative of enhanced disorder and inhomogeneity. The residual-resistance ratio is also smaller for sample B, consistent with a higher defect density. Such microstructural differences are known to strongly affect vortex penetration and avalanche dynam-8ics [44, 45]. Together with a more gradual edge, this may explain the absence of equidistant steps in sample B. Furthermore, thermal activation (vortex creep) effec-tively weakens pinning and increases dissipative response at elevated temperatures [14]. In the more disordered pinning potential of sample B, this effect is particularly pronounced and likely leads to the observed smearing of the steps at higher temperatures.  

> IV. CONCLUSION

We have experimentally investigated the influence of a perpendicular magnetic field on superconducting copla-nar resonators and observed a pronounced staircase-like magnetoresponse associated with Abrikosov vortex dy-namics. Beyond the reversible Meissner regime, the en-tire resonance peak undergoes abrupt jumps as a func-tion of the applied magnetic field. Upon reversal of the field sweep, these jumps form an almost equidistant series with a characteristic spacing ∆ H ≃ 1.7–1 .8 Oe. While this spacing is observed for all studied resonators, the absolute fields at which the jumps occur differ between them, indicating the intrinsically local character of the underlying mechanism. These observations supported by our theoretical estimations of a vortex inductance point out to multiple-vortex entry and exit events. A compar-ison of two chips fabricated from Nb films of different quality shows that the equidistant staircase is preserved over a broad temperature range in a higher-quality, more homogeneous film, whereas it is strongly degraded in a lower-quality, more inhomogeneous film, where the steps progressively smear out upon warming. The non-proportional and qualitatively different re-sponses of the resonant frequency and the quality fac-tor point to a complex interplay between vortex and an-tivortex configurations and the microwave properties of the resonator. Taken together, our results indicate that a comprehensive description of the observed behavior must simultaneously account for the discrete nature of indi-vidual vortex events and for the collective dynamics of a large number of vortices in the presence of pinning. We expect that these findings will motivate further ex-perimental and theoretical studies of vortex dynamics in planar superconducting structures. A predictive under-standing of such complex vortex systems is essential for reliably assessing their impact on superconducting cir-cuits and for enabling controlled and scalable use of vor-tices in emerging superconducting logic and computing architectures. 

> ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

We thank Sergey Grebenchuk and Igor Golovchanskiy for their valuable advice and assistance in the early stages of this study. This work was carried out using equip-ment from the MIPT Shared Facilities Center. The re-search was supported by the Russian Science Foundation project No. 23-72-30004 (cryogenic measurements) and the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of the Rus-sian Federation Project No. 075-15-2025-010 (analysis of experimental data, approximations) 

> Appendix A: Kinetic inductance of a single vortex: analytical estimations

To estimate the changes in kinetic inductance and re-lated shifts in resonance frequency we use next model. We consider a superconducting narrow strip with length 

l, width W , and thickness d (l ≫ W ≫ d and λ2 ≫ W d )in a perpendicular dc field H0ez and Abrikosov vortices in this strip. Within standard theoretical approaches [13, 46, 47], the vortex equation of motion can be writ-ten as (we neglect the inertial effects associated with the vortex mass, creep effect and intervortex interaction): 

ηv = Φ0

c [jtr × ez ] − ∇ Ueff (R), (A1) where η is viscosity coefficient [47], (Φ 0/c )[ jtr × ez ] is Lorentz force and Ueff is an effective potential that in-cludes both the interaction of vortex with pinning centers arising from sample inhomogeneity and the interaction of vortex with Meissner screening current and the sample edges, R and v denote the vortex position and velocity. Assuming that the vortex undergoes small oscillations around its equilibrium position R0, we approximate the potential by a harmonic form U ≈ ηω k(R − R0)2/2, where ωk is the depinning constant and depends strongly on the pinning mechanism [48]. With this approximation, Eq. (A1) in the Fourier representation ( ∂t → iω ) takes the form (the tilde indicates the Fourier component): (1 + ωk

iω )η˜v = ˜FL. (A2) Using expression for electric-field induced by a single vor-tex moving ˜Ev = −Φ0[˜v × ez ]/(lW ) we obtain the vortex contribution to the impedance from N vortices: 

Zvtot =

> N

X

> i=1

Zvi , Zvi = Φ20

c2W 2dη 

11 + ωk,i 

iω . (A3) Eq. (A3) shows that for weak effective pinning, ωk,i ≪ ω,the impedance Zvi is predominantly resistive while its reactive part behaves capacitively ∝ ω−1. Whereas for strong effective pinning, ωk,i ≫ ω, Zvi mainly contributes to the inductive response of the sample. We next consider the case of strong pinning (purely inductive vortex responce) and contribution to the char-acteristic pinning frequency ωk that is common to all vortices and originates from the Meissner screening cur-rents and from the vortex interaction with the sample edges. In the weak-screening approximation, the inter-action energy between a vortex and the Meissner cur-rent js,M = −c/ (4 πλ 2)H0xey can be estimated as UM =9Φ0H0x2/(8 πλ 2). The edge contribution can be written as −∇ Uedges = Φ 20/(16 πλ 2W ) tan( πx/W ), |x| ≤ W/ 2[49, 50]. Thus, for a vortex oscillating near the strip center (|x| ≪ W ) we obtain 

ωk ≈ 1

η

Φ0

4πλ 2 (H0 − H′), H′ = πΦ0

4W 2 . (A4) The corresponding single-vortex contribution to the ki-netic inductance and to the resonance-frequency shift reads 

Lvk = Lk0

Φ0

(H0 − H′)lW , Lk0 = 4πλ 2lW d , (A5) and 

δf v

f0

= − 12



1 + W d λ2

−1 Φ0

(H0 − H′)lW . (A6) The divergence as H0 → H′ reflects the rapid increase of the vortex displacement at a fixed ac current amplitude (note, that it is consequence of made approach |x| ≪ W ). For a wide strip W d ≫ λ2, the edge force does not ad-mit a simple analytical form and for simplicity we neglect it. Using the screening and transport current densities [51, 52] 

js,M = − cH 0x

2πd p(W/ 2) 2 − x2 , (A7) 

jtr = Iπd p(W/ 2) 2 − x2 , (A8) one finds in the quasistationary limit for the vortex located near the center of the strip 

Lvk = 2Φ 0

W (H0 − H′) (A9) where we introduce the vortex exit field as H′. Above expression is not applicable at very low value of |H0 −H′|

when the vortex exits the strip and one may expect large increase of Lvk at finite magnetic field. 

> Appendix B: Kinetic inductance of a single vortex: numerical calculations

In the quasistationary limit the kinetic inductance of the vortex can also be found using time-dependent Ginzburg-Landau equation for the superconducting or-der parameter Ψ [47]: 

 ∂∂t + iφ 



Ψ = ( ∇ + iA)2Ψ + ( a(r) − | Ψ|2)Ψ . (B1) In Eq. (B1) Ψ is normalized in units of Ψ0 =3.07 kB Tc(1 − T /T c)1/2, distance is in units of      

> FIG. 5. (a) Field-dependent kinetic inductance of a vortex (Lvk, solid symbols) and of a narrow strip without a vortex (LMk, open symbols) obtained using the Ginzburg-Landau ap-proach. In the inset we show sketch of the strip with a vortex. (b) Field-dependent kinetic inductance of a vortex pinned in the center of the superconducting strip for different pinning strengths, controlled by the parameter ain the Eq. (B1).

temperature-dependent coherence length ξ, vector poten-tial is in units of Φ 0/2πξ . In these units the magnetic field is scaled by Hc2 = Φ 0/2πξ 2 and the current den-sity by j0 = cΦ0/8π2λ2ξ. Time is scaled in units of the Ginzburg-Landau relaxation time τGL = 2 ℏkB Tc/π Ψ20,the electrostatic potential φ, is in units of φ0 = ℏ/2eτ GL .In our calculations we use the superconductor-vacuum boundary conditions at the edges of the strip: (∇ − 

iA)Ψ |n = 0, ∇φ|n = 0 and superconductor-normal metal boundary conditions at its ends: Ψ = 0, ∇φ|n = −I/W d .Because we consider narrow strip limit ( λ2/d > W ) we neglect contribution to A from screening and transport current and choose A = (0 , H 0x, 0). To find φ we solve the following equation ∆φ = div (Im(Ψ ∗(∇ + iA)Ψ)) , (B2) which is coming from the conservation of the total current in the strip, i.e. div j = 0. In the numerical calculations, we vary the width of 10           

> FIG. 6. Color maps of the transmission amplitude, |S21 |(dB), as a function of signal frequency and applied magnetic field for Res #3 (a) and Res #7 (b) of the sample B. The inserts show images of the resonators region where the central line connects to the ground. All resonators have the central line width W= 30 μm and the gap to the ground G= 17 μm. Resonator #3 has narrowed part at the central line with width 5 μm and length 70 μm.

the strip, W , and set its length as l = 5 W . We also consider the case where a pinning center with size 2 ξ ×2ξ

is located at the center of the strip. Inside the pinning area, we choose a(r) = a0 < 1, while outside, a(r) = 1 in Eq. (B1). Physically, this corresponds to a variation in the local critical temperature. To find the kinetic inductance 

Lk(H0) = c2

I∂F s(H0, I )

∂I , (B3) we calculate current-dependent superconducting free energy 

Fs(I, H 0) = −d H2

> cm

8π

Z

|Ψ|4dxdy (B4) where we integrate over the width and length of the strip ( Hcm = Φ 0/2√2πξλ is thermodynamic magnetic field) and |Ψ|(x, y ) corresponds to stationary solution of Eqs. (B1, B2) at fixed H0 and I. To find Lvk we calcu-late Lk(H0) for the strip without vortex ( LMk - Meissner state), with vortex and subtracted one from the other. In Fig. 5, we plot our results for a strips with different widths, where kinetic inductance is scaled in units of Lk0

- see Eq. (A5) (for our parameters Lk0 ∼ 0.13 pH). The dependence LMk (H0) is nonlinear in the Meissner state due to the depairing effect of screening currents and it is doubled at relatively large H ∼ Hs. Here, Hs is the magnetic field corresponding to the first vortex entry; in the London model, Hs = Φ 0/2πξW [50]. At H ∼ H′,there is a rapid increase of Lvk, which has the same reason as in the analytical model. When H < H ′, vortex exits the strip, and Lvk = 0. At a field around Hs Lvk becomes negative. We at-tribute this effect to the partial compensation of screen-ing currents by currents flowing around the vortex, which reduces nonlinear effects. This leads to a smaller overall value of the sum LMk + Lvk compared to LMk alone. When 

H > H s, vortices enter the strip, and our calculations are terminated. From Fig. 5(b), it follows that the pinning center does not significantly change Lvk, at least in our model. The value of Lvk remains approximately equal to Lk0 and in-creases as H0 decreases. The pinning center reduces the maximum value of Lvk because vortex displacement is now restricted by the pinning region, and allows the vortex to exist even at zero or negative magnetic fields. Using the above results, we can estimate the value of the single vortex kinetic inductance in our system. Since 

d ∼ λ ∼ 100 nm, we have Λ ∼ 100 nm ≪ 30 μm. In Eq. (A9) H0 has a meaning of the magnetic field outside the strip. In our case magnetic field outside the strip does not coincide with external magnetic field due to screening by ground plate and pinned vortices. For estimation we take H0 = 1 − 10 Oe (it is around of Hc1 for our strip) and find Lvk ∼ 0.13 − 0.013 pH. In the experiment, the inductance varies by 0 .1 − 1 pH (see Fig. 3). If position of the pinning center is located close to the edge of the strip it may lead to increase of 

Lvk due to locally larger j0 (see Eq. A8). In any case we assume that the variation of inductance in our experi-ment could be related to the exit of many vortices from the strip or entry of many antivortices, which compen-sate fully (if they annihilate vortices) or partially (if they are pinned on some distance from vortices) contribution of vortices to the inductance. 11 

> FIG. 7. Scanning electron microscope (SEM) images of sam-ples A and B. The images show the boundary between the central resonator line and the etched gap. Both images were acquired in a top-down geometry. The manually drawn lines indicate the edges of the superconducting film.
> Appendix C: Methods

Both chips were fabricated from 100 nm thick niobium films deposited by magnetron sputtering. Sample A was grown on a Si/SiO 2 substrate, whereas sample B was grown on high-resistivity Si. The coplanar structures were patterned by optical lithography and plasma etching through a polymer mask. We used a CF 4 + O 2 plasma for sample A and an SF 6 + C 2H2 plasma for sample B. The lower film quality of sample B may originate from a degraded vacuum or contamination of the Nb source during deposition. The measurements were performed in a dilution refrig-erator with a base temperature of 18 mK. A perpendic-ular magnetic field was generated by a superconducting solenoid with a conversion factor of 1 .068 Oe/mA, driven by a Yokogawa GS200 dc current source. The transmis-sion parameter S21 was measured using a vector network analyzer connected to the sample holder via coaxial mi-crowave lines. The input line included 40 dB of cryogenic attenuation. Unless stated otherwise, the measurements were performed at a readout power of −30 dBm (1 μW). With all the powers used in the experiment, the res-onators were measured in multiphoton mode nph ≫ 1[53]. 

> Appendix D: Magnetic field measurements on Sample B

A resonator with identical geometry to the one on sam-ple A (Res #3) was fabricated on sample B (also la-beled as Res #3). Additionally, a resonator without a constriction at the junction between the center line and   

> FIG. 8. A 15 μm×15 μm magnetic force microscopy image showing local redistribution of the pinned vortex-antivortex on the surface of a 100 nm thick niobium film. The image was obtained at a temperature of 4.2 K and an external mag-netic field of -25 Oe with a prehistory after the introduction of +100 Oe. White circles correspond to vortices with a positive field direction, and black — with a negative field.

the ground plane was also produced (Res #7). Figure 6 shows the dependence of the resonator response on the magnetic field for a field sweep sequence: from −Hmax 

to + Hmax .

> Appendix E: Scanning electron microscope images

Scanning electron microscope (SEM) images of both samples are presented in Figure 7. On the niobium sur-face, elongated grain-like features are clearly resolved. For sample A, the lateral grain dimensions can be es-timated to be approximately 100 × 10 nm. In contrast, sample B exhibits a finer grain structure forming a more densely packed network. Although the images were recorded in a nominally top-down (plan-view) geometry, the boundaries of the super-conducting region remain clearly visible. This indicates that the edges are not perfectly vertical but instead ex-hibit a finite sidewall slope. Such an effect can arise from gradual erosion of the resist mask during the etch-ing process. Indeed, different resist materials and plasma chemistries were used during the fabrication of the two samples. From a geometrical analysis of the SEM images, the edge inclination angle is estimated to be approxi-mately 75 ◦ for sample A and 45 ◦ for sample B (where 90 ◦ corresponds to an ideal vertical sidewall). In both samples, the etching process was intentionally overextended in time. As a result, after complete re-moval of the niobium film, the plasma continues to etch the underlying substrate for a short period. In the fig-ure, the manually drawn lines indicate the approximate extent of the boundary region corresponding to niobium, 12 

FIG. 9. Normalized resistance R(T )/R (10 K) for samples A and B at low temperatures illustrating the superconducting transition temperatures. The legend also shows residual-resistance ratios (RRR). 

as inferred from contrast differences. 

Appendix F: Example of vortex/antivortex distribution 

In another study, we examined the surface of a 100 nm thick niobium film fabricated using the same magnetron sputtering method. Figure 8 shows a magnetic field map obtained by magnetic force microscopy at a temperature of 4.2 K. This image primarily illustrates the possibility of vortices and antivortices coexisting in close proximity during film demagnetization without annihilation, which is hindered by pinning. In this image, the minimum dis-tance between a vortex and an antivortex is 1.5 μm. The measured film had dimensions of 5 ×5 mm, and the scan-ning was performed near its center. 

Appendix G: R(T) for samples A and B 

The temperature-dependent resistance of samples A and B was measured using a direct current method to determine their critical temperature, Tc, and the resid-ual resistivity ratio, RRR = R(300 K) /R (10 K). Sam-ple A exhibits a sharp superconducting transition with a critical temperature of Tc = 8 .7 K. In sample B, the resistance begins to decrease at approximately 8.1 K but drops to zero only at 6.1 K, which we define as its critical temperature, Tc.

[1] A. Wallraff, D. I. Schuster, A. Blais, L. Frunzio, R. S. Huang, J. Majer, S. Kumar, S. M. Girvin, and R. J. Schoelkopf, Strong coupling of a single photon to a super-conducting qubit using circuit quantum electrodynamics, Nature 431 , 162 (2004). [2] D. S. Kalashnikov, V. I. Ruzhitskiy, A. G. Shishkin, I. A. Golovchanskiy, M. Y. Kupriyanov, I. I. Soloviev, D. Roditchev, and V. S. Stolyarov, Demonstration of a josephson vortex-based memory cell with microwave energy-efficient readout, Communications Physics 7, 88 (2024). [3] L. Nulens, D. A. Chaves, S. Reniers, R. Dillemans, I. P. Cools, K. Temst, B. Raes, M. J. Van Bael, and J. Van de Vondel, Nonvolatile cryogenic phase-slip memory with single-shot readout, Phys. Rev. Appl. 24 , 054019 (2025). [4] P. K. Day, H. G. LeDuc, B. A. Mazin, A. Vayonakis, and J. Zmuidzinas, A broadband superconducting detector suitable for use in large arrays, Nature 425 , 817 (2003). [5] J. Gao, M. R. Vissers, M. O. Sandberg, F. C. S. da Silva, S. W. Nam, D. P. Pappas, D. S. Wisbey, E. C. Langman, S. R. Meeker, B. A. Mazin, H. G. Leduc, J. Zmuidzinas, and K. D. Irwin, A titanium-nitride near-infrared kinetic inductance photon-counting detector and its anomalous electrodynamics, Applied Physics Letters 101 , 142602 (2012). [6] J. Zmuidzinas, Superconducting microresonators: Physics and applications, Annual Review of Condensed Matter Physics 3, 169 (2012). [7] T. Noguchi, A. Dominjon, M. Kroug, S. Mima, and C. Otani, Characteristics of very high q nb supercon-ducting resonators for microwave kinetic inductance de-tectors, IEEE Transactions on Applied Superconductiv-ity 29 , 1 (2019). [8] E. V. Zikiy, A. I. Ivanov, N. S. Smirnov, D. O. Moskalev, V. I. Polozov, A. R. Matanin, E. I. Malevannaya, V. V. Echeistov, T. G. Konstantinova, and I. A. Rodionov, High-q trenched aluminum coplanar resonators with an ultrasonic edge microcutting for superconducting quan-tum devices, Scientific Reports 13 , 15536 (2023). [9] S. Poorgholam-Khanjari, V. Seferai, P. Foshat, C. Rose, H. Feng, R. H. Hadfield, M. Weides, and K. Delfanazari, Engineering high-q superconducting tantalum microwave coplanar waveguide resonators for compact coherent quantum circuit, Scientific Reports 15 , 27113 (2025). [10] T. Chang, T. Cohen, I. Holzman, G. Catelani, and M. Stern, Tunable superconducting flux qubits with long coherence times, Phys. Rev. Appl. 19 , 024066 (2023). [11] A. Palacios-Laloy, F. Nguyen, F. Mallet, P. Bertet, D. Vion, and D. Esteve, Tunable resonators for quan-tum circuits, Journal of Low Temperature Physics 151 ,1034 (2008). [12] J. E. Healey, T. Lindstrom, M. S. Colclough, C. M. Muir-head, and A. Y. Tzalenchuk, Magnetic field tuning of coplanar waveguide resonators, Applied Physics Letters 

93 , 043513 (2008). [13] J. I. Gittleman and B. Rosenblum, Radio-frequency re-sistance in the mixed state for subcritical currents, Phys. Rev. Lett. 16 , 734 (1966). [14] M. W. Coffey and J. R. Clem, Unified theory of effects of vortex pinning and flux creep upon the rf surface 13 

impedance of type-ii superconductors, Phys. Rev. Lett. 

67 , 386 (1991). [15] D. Bothner, T. Gaber, M. Kemmler, D. Koelle, R. Kleiner, S. W¨ unsch, and M. Siegel, Magnetic hys-teresis effects in superconducting coplanar microwave res-onators, Phys. Rev. B 86 , 014517 (2012). [16] W. T. Norris, Calculation of hysteresis losses in hard su-perconductors carrying ac: isolated conductors and edges of thin sheets, Journal of Physics D: Applied Physics 3,489 (1970). [17] E. H. Brandt and M. Indenbom, Type-ii-superconductor strip with current in a perpendicular magnetic field, Phys. Rev. B 48 , 12893 (1993). [18] D. Bothner, D. Wiedmaier, B. Ferdinand, R. Kleiner, and D. Koelle, Improving superconducting resonators in magnetic fields by reduced field focussing and engineered flux screening, Phys. Rev. Appl. 8, 034025 (2017). [19] J. Kroll, F. Borsoi, K. van der Enden, W. Uilhoorn, D. de Jong, M. Quintero-P´ erez, D. van Woerkom, A. Bruno, S. Plissard, D. Car, E. Bakkers, M. Cassidy, and L. Kouwenhoven, Magnetic-field-resilient supercon-ducting coplanar-waveguide resonators for hybrid circuit quantum electrodynamics experiments, Phys. Rev. Appl. 

11 , 064053 (2019). [20] C. Song, T. W. Heitmann, M. P. DeFeo, K. Yu, R. Mc-Dermott, M. Neeley, J. M. Martinis, and B. L. T. Plourde, Microwave response of vortices in superconduct-ing thin films of re and al, Phys. Rev. B 79 , 174512 (2009). [21] Zhou, You-He and Yang, Xiaobin, Numerical simulations of thermomagnetic instability in high-Tc superconduc-tors: Dependence on sweep rate and ambient temper-ature, Phys. Rev. B 74 , 054507 (2006). [22] Xue, Cun and Ren, Han-Xi and Jia, Peng and Wang, Qing-Yu and Liu, Wei and Ou, Xian-Jin and Sun, Liang-Ting and Silhanek, Alejandro V, Holistic numerical sim-ulation of a quenching process on a real-size multifila-mentary superconducting coil, Nature Communications 

15 , 10454 (2024). [23] Ren, Han-Xi and Xue, Cun, Transient stability of super-conducting wires under pulsed thermal disturbances, Su-perconductor Science and Technology 38 , 125015 (2025). [24] Vestg˚ arden, J. I. and Shantsev, D. V. and Galperin, Y. M. and Johansen, T. H., Dynamics and morphology of dendritic flux avalanches in superconducting films, Phys. Rev. B 84 , 054537 (2011). [25] Baruch-El, E. and Baziljevich, M. and Shapiro, B. Ya. and Johansen, T. H. and Shaulov, A. and Yeshurun, Y., Dendritic flux instabilities in YBa 2Cu 3O7−x films: Ef-fects of temperature and magnetic field ramp rate, Phys. Rev. B 94 , 054509 (2016). [26] L. Jiang, C. Xue, L. Burger, B. Vanderheyden, A. V. Silhanek, and Y.-H. Zhou, Selective triggering of mag-netic flux avalanches by an edge indentation, Phys. Rev. B 101 , 224505 (2020). [27] L. Nulens, N. Lejeune, J. Caeyers, S. Marinkovi´ c, I. Cools, H. Dausy, S. Basov, B. Raes, M. J. Van Bael, A. Geresdi, et al. , Catastrophic magnetic flux avalanches in nbtin superconducting resonators, Communications Physics 6, 267 (2023). [28] I. Nsanzineza and B. L. T. Plourde, Trapping a single vortex and reducing quasiparticles in a superconducting resonator, Phys. Rev. Lett. 113 , 117002 (2014). [29] G. Ghigo, D. Torsello, L. Gozzelino, M. Fracasso, M. Bartoli, C. Pira, D. Ford, G. Marconato, M. Fretto, I. De Carlo, et al. , Vortex dynamics in nbti films at high frequency and high dc magnetic fields, Scientific Reports 

13 , 9315 (2023). [30] T. Golod, A. Iovan, and V. M. Krasnov, Single abrikosov vortices as quantized information bits, Nature communi-cations 6, 8628 (2015). [31] I. Keren, A. Gutfreund, A. Noah, N. Fridman, A. Di Bernardo, H. Steinberg, and Y. Anahory, Chip-integrated vortex manipulation, Nano Letters 23 , 4669 (2023). [32] A. Skog, R. A. Hovhannisyan, and V. M. Krasnov, Nu-merical modeling of vortex-based superconducting mem-ory cells: Dynamics and geometrical optimization, Nano-materials 14 , 10.3390/nano14201634 (2024). [33] S. Probst, F. Song, P. A. Bushev, A. V. Ustinov, and M. Weides, Efficient and robust analysis of complex scat-tering data under noise in microwave resonators, Review of Scientific Instruments 86 (2015). [34] D. Pozar, Microwave Engineering , 4th ed. (Wiley, 2011). [35] C. P. Bean and J. D. Livingston, Surface barrier in type-ii superconductors, Phys. Rev. Lett. 12 , 14 (1964). [36] I. L. Maksimov and G. M. Maksimova, Stability limits, structure, and relaxation of a mixed state in supercon-ducting films with an edge barrier, JETP Lett. 65 , 423 (1997). [37] K. Shulga, S. Nishimura, P. A. Volkov, R. Hasegawa, M. Hirano, T. Tsuji, T. Iwasaki, M. Hatano, K. Sasaki, and K. Kobayashi, Observation of individual vortex pen-etration in a coplanar superconducting resonator (2025), arXiv:2512.00790. [38] J. Shvartzberg, A. Shaulov, and Y. Yeshurun, Quasiperi-odic magnetic flux avalanches in doubly connected super-conductors, Phys. Rev. B 100 , 184506 (2019). [39] D. Y. Vodolazov, F. M. Peeters, S. V. Dubonos, and A. K. Geim, Multiple flux jumps and irreversible behavior of thin al superconducting rings, Phys. Rev. B 67 , 054506 (2003). [40] Jiang, Lu and Xue, Cun and Zhou, You-He, Sensitivity of the thermomagnetic instability in superconducting film to magnetic perturbation for electromagnetic interference detection, Superconductor Science and Technology 36 ,025004 (2023). [41] R. A. Hovhannisyan, S. Grebenchuk, S. A. Larionov, A. G. Shishkin, A. K. Grebenko, N. E. Kupchinskaya, E. A. Dobrovolskaya, O. Skryabina, A. Y. Aladyshkin, V. V. Dremov, I. Golovchanskiy, A. V. Samokhvalov, A. S. Mel’nikov, D. Roditchev, and V. S. Stolyarov, Scanning vortex microscopy reveals thickness-dependent pinning nano-network in superconducting niobium films, Communications Materials 6, 42 (2025). [42] S. Larionov, A. Shishkin, D. Roditchev, D. Y. Vodolazov, and V. Stolyarov, Peculiarities of the vortex dynamics in a granular niobium superconducting bridge, Physical Review B 111 , 214511 (2025). [43] A. Aladyshkin, R. Hovhannisyan, S. Grebenchuk, S. Lar-ionov, A. Shishkin, O. Skryabina, A. Samokhvalov, A. Melnikov, D. Roditchev, and V. Stolyarov, Magnetic force microscopy versus scanning quantum-vortex mi-croscopy: Probing pinning landscape in granular niobium films, Mesoscience & Nanotechnology 1, 02001 (2025). [44] J.-S. Oh, C. J. Kopas, J. Marshall, X. Fang, K. R. Joshi, A. Datta, S. Ghimire, J.-M. Park, R. Kim, D. Setiawan, 14 

E. Lachman, J. Y. Mutus, A. A. Murthy, A. Grassellino, A. Romanenko, J. Zasadzinski, J. Wang, R. Prozorov, K. Yadavalli, M. Kramer, and L. Zhou, Exploring the relationship between deposition method, microstructure, and performance of nb/si-based superconducting copla-nar waveguide resonators, Acta Materialia 276 , 120153 (2024). [45] Silhanek, Alejandro V. and Jiang, Lu and Xue, Cun and Vanderheyden, Benoˆ ıt, Impact of border defects on the magnetic flux penetration in superconducting films, Ap-plied Physics Reviews 12 , 041324 (2025). [46] L. P. Gor’kov and N. B. Kopnin, Sov. Phys.-Usp. 18 , 496 (1975). [47] N. Kopnin, Theory of Nonequilibrium Superconductivity ,International Series of Monographs on Physics (Claren-don Press, 2001). [48] M. Golosovsky, M. Tsindlekht, H. Chayet, and D. Davi-dov, Vortex depinning frequency in yba 2cu 3o7−x super-conducting thin films: Anisotropy and temperature de-pendence, Phys. Rev. B 50 , 470 (1994). [49] V. V. Shmidt and G. S. Mkrtchyan, Vortices in type-ll superconductors, Phys. Usp. 17 , 170 (1974). [50] G. Maksimova, Mixed state and critical current in narrow semiconducting films, Phys. Solid State 40 , 1607 (1998). [51] M. Kupriyanov and K. Likharev, Effect of edge barrier on critical current of superconducitng strip, Sov. Phys. Solid State 16 , 1835 (1975). [52] M. Benkraouda and J. Clem, Critical current from sur-face barriers in type-ii superconducting strips, Physical Review B 58 , 15103 (1998). [53] McRae, C. R. H. and Wang, H. and Gao, J. and Vissers, M. R. and Brecht, T. and Dunsworth, A. and Pappas, D. P. and Mutus, J., Materials loss measurements using su-perconducting microwave resonators, Review of Scientific Instruments 91 , 091101 (2020).